---
layout: post
title: "2024 is coming"
author: "Tommaso Redaelli"
categories: documentation
tags: [documentation,sample]
image: passo_stelvio_night.jpg
image2: All_maddi.jpeg
---


## Future is Alps

In the upcoming year, Peregrina is set to elevate its adventurous spirit as it ventures into the majestic Alps. The route will span from Milan to Belluno, weaving through iconic locations such as Stelvio, Merano, Bolzano, and Cortina. This new trajectory promises awe-inspiring landscapes, ensuring that participants will run amidst breathtaking views that add an extra layer of excitement and beauty to the already thrilling experience. The challenge will not only be about conquering the distance but also about embracing the natural wonders of the Alps, creating memories that go beyond the mere physical achievement.

## Altitude, landscapes, nature 

Beyond the adrenaline and scenic vistas, Peregrina 2024 will take on a philanthropic dimension. The project aims to raise funds for a charitable organization, adding a noble cause to the pursuit of personal and collective goals. Each participating team, composed of 6 runners and a dedicated driver, will contribute to this initiative by raising and donating 300 euros. The entirety of these funds will be devolved to the chosen charity, amplifying the impact of Peregrina beyond the running trails.

## Goal

The journey will conclude with a grand finale—a final party organized by the event in the enchanting surroundings of Belluno. As the location promises to be as captivating as the run itself, participants can anticipate a celebration that complements the sense of accomplishment, fostering a community spirit among all those who contributed to the charitable cause. Further details about the final party's specifics will be communicated in due course, adding an element of anticipation to an already eagerly awaited event.
